# Response Paper  
Geographical Information System(GIS) is a technology that developed by integrating many preexisting geographic analytic skills — collecting, managing, visualizing, searching, analyzing. etc. in a comprehensive manner. In doing so, GIS empowers researchers to look into more complex geographic, spatial and whatever related data from various sources, and thus to make their interconnections visible.  
When applied in the field of archaeology, GIS facilitates the creation of an interactive dataset by incorporating data evidence such as inscriptions, archaeological artifacts, excavation sites, military landscapes, and suchlike. Consequently, GIS serves as a visualization tool tailored for the in-depth study of specific designated topic. It is, however, ultimately a tool that helps with decision-making. To utilize it to get the desired research results you also have to consider potential obstacles such as the inaccessibility of certain data.

# Digital Tool Critique
## The Homer Multitext project
### permanence and sustainability
C  
The data is simply managed in a Github repo, which I think its sustainability to a large extent depend on how the code was written and maintenance. There is no clear indication on updates, neither. According to info on the Github repo, the latest update is 3 weeks ago, which is ok, but the overall updates are not very frequent. Some datasets in the image archive & licensing section are no longer available. 
### openness or restriction of their data 
B  
The site is using a trusted certificate issued by R3, an open resource certificate. Texts are indeed downloadable in several formats, however only one machine-readable format. Many other kind of resources, for example the digital images and specific contents generated by those browsers, remain non-downloadable. 
### functionality of their interface and interaction with their data 
C   
The page is overall very brief. The search tool does not allow advanced search, only with very simple filters. Also, the page barely has visualization tools, and the image collection, as mentioned above, seems to be no longer available. 
### connectivity across resources (under the principles of Linked Open Data) 
C  
The website got its unique URI, however does not link to some other URIs but just its subsections.

## The Digital Dead Sea Scrolls
### permanence and sustainability 
B  
The website has its data deposited in a reliable third party (get the Copyright from The Israel Museum), and it is also comprehensively supported by The Israel Museum. The Museum’s e-Newsletter needs update, its 404 Not Found now. However, its security overview explicitly states that “This page is not secure”. 
### openness or restriction of their data 
D  
No any downloading information.
### functionality of their interface and interaction with their data 
C  
Visualization is fine, pictures are powered by Google and are fairly clear. There is also some videos inserted.  However, the website only has a very basic search bar, without any advanced search options. For each scrolls, there is only the original item (except for the Isaiah Scroll), without any extraction of texts and tools like dictionary. 
### connectivity across resources (under the principles of Linked Open Data) 
D  
While the website uses unique URI and maintains certain degree’s interconnectivity, there is rarely links to other URIs. 
